src/content/pages/about.md, before:

---
title: About
description: Learn more about Astro Modular and the philosophy behind its design approach.
noIndex: false
aliases:
  - about-me
  - about-us
---
Welcome to **Astro Modular**, an Astro blog theme template designed for Obsidian users, created by [David V. Kimball](https://davidvkimball.com). This theme turns Obsidian into a powerful CMS for instant blog publishing.

## Philosophy

Great content deserves great presentation without complexity. This blog theme is built on four core principles:

### Clarity First
Content should be the star, not the design. Every element is carefully crafted to enhance readability and focus attention on what matters most - your ideas and writing.

### Highly Performant
Fast loading times and smooth interactions are not optional. Every aspect of this theme has been optimized to deliver exceptional performance across all devices.

### Works with Obsidian
If you use Obsidian, this theme is a natural extension of your workflow. All rich markdown and extended markdown features, including Wikilinks, callouts, and other embedded features, display seamlessly between your vault and published site.

### Modular Design
Every feature can be toggled on or off through a single configuration file. Enable only what you need, keeping your site fast and focused on your specific use case.

![Photograph of a lush, green cove.](images/water.jpg)

Commit message:

Added projects and docs content type. Need to test: featured frontmatter, working with other themes, markdown/wikilink compatability between content types (doesn't currently work), and more. Updated Astro Composer plugin for new custom content types.

src/content/pages/about.md, after:

---
title: About
description: Learn more about Astro Modular and the philosophy behind its design approach.
noIndex: false
aliases:
  - about-me
  - about-us
---
Welcome to **Astro Modular**, an Astro blog theme template designed for Obsidian users, created by [David V. Kimball](https://davidvkimball.com). This theme turns Obsidian into a powerful CMS for instant blog publishing.

## Philosophy

Great content deserves great presentation without complexity. This blog theme is built on four core principles:

### Clarity First
Content should be the star, not the design. Every element is carefully crafted to enhance readability and focus attention on what matters most - your ideas and writing.

### Highly Performant
Fast loading times and smooth interactions are not optional. Every aspect of this theme has been optimized to deliver exceptional performance across all devices.

### Works with Obsidian
If you use Obsidian, this theme is a natural extension of your workflow. All rich markdown and extended markdown features, including Wikilinks, callouts, and other embedded features, display seamlessly between your vault and published site.

### Modular Design
Every feature can be toggled on or off through a single configuration file. Enable only what you need, keeping your site fast and focused on your specific use case.

---

## Pages to Check Out

- [Contact](/contact) page with a form
- [Thank You](/thank-you) page where submitters are directed after a successful submission 
- [Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy) page

---
![Photograph of a lush, green cove.](images/water.jpg)
