src/content/posts/obsidian-vault-guide.md, before:

---
title: Obsidian Vault Guide
date: 2025-09-10
description: How to use the included Astro Suite Obsidian vault.
tags:
  - tutorial
  - setup
  - configuration
  - astro
  - obsidian
image: "[[attachments/astro-composer-suite-for-obsidian.png]]"
imageAlt: Astro and Obsidian logos stacked vertically with a "+" (plus) sign between them.
imageOG: true
hideCoverImage: true
hideTOC: false
targetKeyword: astro suite obsidian vault
draft: false
aliases:
  - astro-suite-vault-modular-guide
  - astro-suite-obsidian-vault-guide-astro-modular
---
![Astro and Obsidian logos stacked vertically with a "+" (plus) sign between them.](/posts/attachments/astro-composer-suite-for-obsidian.png)

## Overview

All plugins, key bindings, and the theme can be customized to your liking, but this is what's on by default. 

## Philosophy 

1. Plug-and-play Astro blogging experience. 
2. Emphasis on customization and modularity. 
3. Visual parity between backend and frontend.

## Theme

For out-of-the-box customization, [Oxygen](https://github.com/davidvkimball/obsidian-oxygen) theme is used, based on the [Minimal theme system](https://minimal.guide/home). It uses a slick color scheme that's highly customizable. 

The [Oxygen Theme Settings](https://github.com/davidvkimball/obsidian-oxygen-settings) plugin is also installed by default, giving you complete control over your experience. You can even define your own color scheme presets. More on that [below](posts/obsidian-vault-guide.md#Oxygen%20Theme%20Settings%20and%20Zen%20Mode).

## CSS Snippets

`astro-modular-styling` gives embedded HTML elements a similar look to how the theme handles them on the front end, for example form and button styling.

> [!tip]- Tip: Optional CSS Snippets
> An optional custom CSS snippet called `custom-draggable-top-area.css` makes moving your window is easier when the window frame is hidden and there's no tab bar. There are also versions specific to Windows and Mac that have OS-specific UI offsets, or just use the base version for no offsets. All can be configured in Settings > Appearance > CSS Snippets. None of these are active in mobile.
> 
> `hide-properties-heading-and-add-properties-button.css` is included if you'd rather use a CSS snippet instead of the included Oxygen Theme Settings plugin or something like the Style Settings plugin, mentioned later in this post.
> 
> `hide-tabs-icon-mobile.css` removes the tabs icon in the mobile version of Obsidian. If you enable the Disable Tabs plugin, you may want to enable this snippet as well.
> 
> Both `hide-longpress-flair-mobile.css` and `hide-header-title-mobile.css` are also related to making the mobile interface more simple. Enable any of these snippets to hide these elements.
> 
> There are few more mobile-specific CSS snippets you can check out.

## Important Hotkeys

Here's a guide for some important hotkeys set especially for this theme:
- Toggle left side panel: `CTRL + ALT + Z`
- Toggle right side panel: `CTRL + ALT + X`
- Toggle tab bar: `CTRL + ALT + S`
- Navigate back: `ALT + ←`
- Navigate forward: `ALT + →`
- Open homepage: `CTRL + M` 
- Add a new property: `CTRL + ;`
- Toggle property visibility for current note: `CTRL + ALT + P`
- Toggle reading view: `CTRL + E`
- Toggle Zen mode: `CTRL + SHIFT + Z`
- Insert image: `CTRL + '`
- Insert image into property: `CTRL + SHIFT + '`
- Insert callout: `CTRL + SHIFT + C`
- Rename current content: `CTRL + R` 
- Open SEO audit: `CTRL + SHIFT + A`
- Open Terminal: `CTRL + SHIFT + D`
- Open Astro Modular Settings: `CTRL + SHIFT + ,`
- Git: Commit and Sync `CTRL + SHIFT + S`

If you're on Mac, `CTRL` = `CMD`.

## Plugins 

Disabled default core plugins: 
- Canvas
- Daily notes
- Note composer
- Page preview
- Templates
- Sync

Community plugins enabled: 
- Alias Filename History
- Astro Composer
- Astro Modular Settings
- Bases CRM
- Default New Tab Page
- Git
- Homepage
- Image Inserter
- Oxygen Theme Settings
- Paste image into property
- Paste image rename
- Property Over Filename
- SEO
- Tag Wrangler
- Title-Only Tab
- Zen Mode

### Astro Modular Settings and Commander

The Astro Modular Settings plugin was specifically made for this theme. It has everything you need to easily tweak your blog's features. It edits the project's `config.ts` file, even though it's outside of the Obsidian vault's root directory. 

A wizard will open at startup which will lead you through some configuration options. You can disable this pop up if you like. 

Pretty much anything else you'd possible want to customize is in the settings of the plugin. You can also create your own theme, import and export configs, and a bunch more.

It also has several useful commands. To open terminal quickly, use the `Open terminal` command. It's been modified for Windows, macOS, and Linux to start terminal in the relevant directory so you can easily do standard package manager commands with `pnpm` or `npm`. It can be activated with `CTRL + SHIFT + D`. 

You can quickly configure your site settings with the `Open Astro Modular Settings` command. You can also press `CTRL + SHIFT + ,` to open it. 

The Commander plugin helps us place a button for each of these actions on the file explorer UI. If you don't want them there, simply disable the plugin or customize the clickable icons to be somewhere else in Obsidian's interface.

### Astro Composer and Alias Filename History

Handy for easily creating new notes as Astro blog posts, pages, projects, or docs. Just create a new note with `CTRL + N`, type in a title in Title case or with special characters, and the note or folder name generated is a kebab-case version of the title without special characters. This is ideal for automating content page slugs. 

You can also define and set default properties that can be generated automatically or manually set for any open note as well. The "Standardize properties" command can help set or reorganize any missing properties or tags, especially if you update your properties template down the road.

Unlike other themes, you can use wikilinks or standard markdown links, ***without*** having to convert those to internal links for Astro with the "Convert internal links for Astro" command. This theme supports any internal link that works with Obsidian.

You can also easily grab links to headings by right clicking one and selecting "Copy Heading Link". 

`CTRL + R` allows you to easily rename blog posts, and note filenames (or parent folders) get updated in kebab-case automatically. When this happens, the old filename will be stored as an alias by default via the Alias Filename History plugin. This means redirects of the old post or page URL will go to the current post's slug, which is configured in Astro. 

You can adjust lots of settings including regex for ignoring names (like `Untitled` or a `_` prefix), timeout in seconds to store the name, or looking for changes in the parent folder name as well if you use the folder-based post option.

### Homepage, Default New Tab Page, and Bases CRM

All three of these plugins work together so you're default screen is a `.base` file that's a directory of all of your blog posts, listed in reverse-chronological order. You're able to configure the CMS view and even add new views to your liking. 

I call this "Home Base."

```base
filters:
  and:
    - file.ext == "md"
formulas:
  Slug: |-
    if(file.folder == "posts", "/posts/" + file.name.replace(".md", ""), 
      if(file.folder == "pages", "/" + file.name.replace(".md", ""), 
        if(file.folder == "special", if(file.name.replace(".md", "") == "home", "/", "/" + file.name.replace(".md", "")), 
          if(file.folder == "projects", "/projects/" + file.name.replace(".md", ""), 
            if(file.folder == "docs", "/docs/" + file.name.replace(".md", ""), 
              "/" + file.folder)))))
  Content Folder: |-
    if(file.name == "index",
      if(file.folder != "",
        if(file.folder.replace("/" + file.folder.replace(/.*\//, ""), "") != "",
          file.folder.replace("/" + file.folder.replace(/.*\//, ""), ""),
          file.folder
        ),
        "root"
      ),
      if(file.folder != "",
        file.folder,
        "root"
      )
    )
properties:
  note.title:
    displayName: Title
  note.date:
    displayName: Date
  note.pubDate:
    displayName: Date
  formula.Slug:
    displayName: Path
views:
  - type: cards
    name: Posts
    filters:
      and:
        - file.folder.startsWith("posts")
    order:
      - title
      - formula.Slug
      - date
    sort:
      - property: date
        direction: DESC
    limit: 8
    cardSize: 230
    image: note.image
    imageAspectRatio: 0.55
    columnSize:
      note.title: 235
  - type: cards
    name: Standard Pages
    filters:
      and:
        - file.folder.startsWith("pages")
    order:
      - title
      - formula.Slug
    sort:
      - property: title
        direction: ASC
  - type: cards
    name: Special Pages
    filters:
      and:
        - file.folder.startsWith("special")
    order:
      - title
      - formula.Slug
    sort:
      - property: title
        direction: ASC
  - type: cards
    name: Projects
    filters:
      and:
        - file.folder.startsWith("projects")
    order:
      - title
      - formula.Slug
    sort:
      - property: date
        direction: DESC
    image: note.image
    cardSize: 200
    imageAspectRatio: 0.6
  - type: cards
    name: Documentation
    filters:
      and:
        - file.folder.startsWith("docs")
    order:
      - title
      - formula.Slug
    sort:
      - property: lastModified
        direction: DESC
    image: note.image
    imageAspectRatio: 0.8
  - type: cards
    name: All Content
    order:
      - title
      - formula.Slug
    sort:
      - property: file.folder
        direction: ASC
    cardSize: 230
    image: note.image
    imageAspectRatio: 0.55

```

Bases CRM lets us treat a grid of content like a content management system. You can select multiple items and do bulk edits, rename content right from that view, or toggle the draft status of an item.
### Oxygen Theme Settings and Zen Mode

This plugin helps you customize your experience if you use the provided Oxygen Obsidian theme and can help you focus on writing.

You'll notice a wide variety of color scheme options, most of which were included in the [Minimal](https://github.com/kepano/obsidian-minimal) theme upon which Oxygen was based.

Should you desire to hide any of the panels, you can use `CTRL + ALT Z` for the left side panel, `CTRL + ALT + X` for the right side panel, or `CTRL + ALT + S` for the tab bar. Pressing it again will reveal it again. 

Zen Mode offers another quick option to focus on your writing. Pressing `CTRL + SHIFT + Z` will enter Zen mode. When activated, all elements removed except for your content. Use the keystroke again to exit. 

If you like, you can install the [Style Settings](https://github.com/mgmeyers/obsidian-style-settings) plugin for even more control.

#### Using a Theme Other Than Oxygen

If you're just interested in hiding UI elements and wish to use a theme other than Oxygen, you can install the [Hider](https://github.com/kepano/obsidian-hider) plugin and use the aforementioned Style Settings plugin to hide the Properties heading and the "Add Property" button. For that use case specifically, you can also enable the `hide-properties-heading-and-add-properties-button.css` CSS snippet which you'll find under Settings > Appearance without using any plugins at all. 

### Paste Image Rename and Paste Image Into Property

Quickly drag and drop image files or paste directly from your clipboard and give them kebab-case, SEO-friendly names. Both work directly in note content or within properties.

### Image Inserter

Pull in images from Unsplash or other sources easily with just a few keystrokes. Just use `CTRL + '` to insert an image - and immediately set a SEO-friendly filename for it via the Paste Image Rename plugin. Insert into the designated property with `CTRL + SHIFT + '`

### Tag Wrangler

Makes managing tabs more useful. Can easily bulk-rename tags or search your content by tags.

### Title-Only Tab

Pulls from the `title` property instead of using the file name for any tab. 

### Property Over Filename

When linking or searching notes, you can use the `title` property as its primary identifier, which is more helpful visually and semantically for linking between and searching for content, since note file names are post/page slugs in kebab case instead of titles. 

When you link to another note, its `title` is automatically set as the hyperlinked text, but you can easily change it to something else after it's been inserted.

### SEO

Get a snappy audit of your content for search engine rankings and AI parsing. You can get a quick snapshot of your whole vault or drill down into specific posts. You can configure the settings to turn off checks you don't care about or tweak the logic in the calculations.

### BRAT

Used to load Astro Modular Settings, or the currently-pending plugins that haven't been added to the community plugin directory yet: Alias Filename History, Astro Composer, Disable Tabs, Oxygen Theme Settings, Property Over Filename, and SEO plugins as well as the Oxygen theme. Future versions of this vault will remove BRAT versions in favor of the official releases.

### Git

With the [Git](https://obsidian.md/plugins?id=obsidian-git) plugin, you can easily publish to your Astro blog without leaving Obsidian using `CTRL + SHIFT + S`. Simply enable the plugin and configure with git to turn it on.

### Disable Tabs

This is off by default, but if enabled, opening any new tab replaces the current one only. Especially nice for when you're hiding the tab bar and don't want multiple tabs. If you enable this plugin, you'd probably want to use some of those optional CSS snippets mentioned above to make window management easier.

When combined with the Homepage and New Default Tab plugins, `CTRL + T` and `CTRL + M` essentially do the same thing.

### Shell Commands

Off by default also, we used to use this to open the `config.ts` file and open the terminal in the project's root directory, but these functions have been replaced by Astro Modular Settings. You can re-enable it and use it though if it's useful to you.

## Mobile 

### Disabling the Git Plugin

It's recommended to disable the Git plugin on mobile and use something like [Git Sync](https://github.com/ViscousPot/GitSync) for iOS and Android (or [MGit](https://github.com/maks/MGit) just for Android) instead. The Git plugin is notoriously buggy on mobile so it's better to use something else. 

Here's how to disable it: 

1. On your mobile device, open Obsidian, and open your Astro Modular site's `src/content` folder as a vault. 
2. Open the left sidebar and open Settings. 
3. Scroll down to community plugins and tap on Git from the list.
4. Scroll all the way down and select "Disable on this device".
5. Restart Obsidian. 

This method is recommended rather than merely disabling the plugin, since if you sync with your desktop it will also get disabled there, too. This way it's disabled per-device.

### Limitations

The Astro Modular Settings plugin, the Paste Image Into Property plugin, and the Commander plugin UI buttons are all disabled on mobile. 

### Customization 

To tweak the mobile-specific experience, there are two main places to check: Toolbar and Appearance in settings.

#### Toolbar

Under the Toolbar settings, you can set the mobile quick action which is triggered by pulling down from the top of the screen by tapping the "Configure" option. 

Below that you can adjust what options are available to you on the mobile toolbar.

#### Appearance 

Under the Appearance settings, locate "Interface" and the "Ribbon menu configuration" option's "Manage" button. You can set your preferred quick access item from the list, and customize which items appear on the ribbon menu. 

If you keep scrolling down, you can find some optional mobile-specific CSS snippets, some of which were mentioned earlier.

### You're All Set

Assuming you have git working on your phone in another capacity, you now have seamless content sync between your desktop, laptop, tablet, and mobile devices.

Commit message:

Added Simple Focus plugin and new UI icon. Updated vault guide. Updated plugins.

src/content/posts/obsidian-vault-guide.md, after:

---
title: Obsidian Vault Guide
date: 2025-09-10
description: How to use the included Astro Suite Obsidian vault.
tags:
  - tutorial
  - setup
  - configuration
  - astro
  - obsidian
image: "[[attachments/astro-composer-suite-for-obsidian.png]]"
imageAlt: Astro and Obsidian logos stacked vertically with a "+" (plus) sign between them.
imageOG: true
hideCoverImage: true
hideTOC: false
targetKeyword: astro suite obsidian vault
draft: false
aliases:
  - astro-suite-vault-modular-guide
  - astro-suite-obsidian-vault-guide-astro-modular
---
![Astro and Obsidian logos stacked vertically with a "+" (plus) sign between them.](/posts/attachments/astro-composer-suite-for-obsidian.png)

## Overview

All plugins, key bindings, and the theme can be customized to your liking, but this is what's on by default. 

## Philosophy 

1. Plug-and-play Astro blogging experience. 
2. Emphasis on customization and modularity. 
3. Visual parity between backend and frontend.

## Theme

For out-of-the-box customization, [Oxygen](https://github.com/davidvkimball/obsidian-oxygen) theme is used, based on the [Minimal theme system](https://minimal.guide/home). It uses a slick color scheme that's highly customizable. 

The [Oxygen Theme Settings](https://github.com/davidvkimball/obsidian-oxygen-settings) plugin is also installed by default, giving you complete control over your experience. You can even define your own color scheme presets. More on that [below](posts/obsidian-vault-guide.md#Oxygen%20Theme%20Settings%20and%20Zen%20Mode).

## CSS Snippets

`astro-modular-styling` gives embedded HTML elements a similar look to how the theme handles them on the front end, for example form and button styling.

> [!tip]- Tip: Optional CSS Snippets
> An optional custom CSS snippet called `custom-draggable-top-area.css` makes moving your window is easier when the window frame is hidden and there's no tab bar. There are also versions specific to Windows and Mac that have OS-specific UI offsets, or just use the base version for no offsets. All can be configured in Settings > Appearance > CSS Snippets. None of these are active in mobile.
> 
> `hide-properties-heading-and-add-properties-button.css` is included if you'd rather use a CSS snippet instead of the included Oxygen Theme Settings plugin or something like the Style Settings plugin, mentioned later in this post.
> 
> `hide-tabs-icon-mobile.css` removes the tabs icon in the mobile version of Obsidian. If you enable the Disable Tabs plugin, you may want to enable this snippet as well.
> 
> Both `hide-longpress-flair-mobile.css` and `hide-header-title-mobile.css` are also related to making the mobile interface more simple. Enable any of these snippets to hide these elements.
> 
> There are few more mobile-specific CSS snippets you can check out.

## Important Hotkeys

Here's a guide for some important hotkeys set especially for this theme:
- Toggle left side panel: `CTRL + ALT + Z`
- Toggle right side panel: `CTRL + ALT + X`
- Toggle tab bar: `CTRL + ALT + S`
- Navigate back: `ALT + ←`
- Navigate forward: `ALT + →`
- Open homepage: `CTRL + M` 
- Add a new property: `CTRL + ;`
- Toggle property visibility for current note: `CTRL + ALT + P`
- Toggle reading view: `CTRL + E`
- Toggle Zen mode: `CTRL + SHIFT + Z`
- Insert image: `CTRL + '`
- Insert image into property: `CTRL + SHIFT + '`
- Insert callout: `CTRL + SHIFT + C`
- Rename current content: `CTRL + R` 
- Open SEO audit: `CTRL + SHIFT + A`
- Open Terminal: `CTRL + SHIFT + D`
- Open Astro Modular Settings: `CTRL + SHIFT + ,`
- Git: Commit and Sync `CTRL + SHIFT + S`

If you're on Mac, `CTRL` = `CMD`.

## Plugins 

Disabled default core plugins: 
- Canvas
- Daily notes
- Note composer
- Page preview
- Templates
- Sync

Community plugins enabled: 
- Alias Filename History
- Astro Composer
- Astro Modular Settings
- Bases CRM
- Default New Tab Page
- Git
- Homepage
- Image Inserter
- Oxygen Theme Settings
- Paste image into property
- Paste image rename
- Property Over Filename
- SEO
- Simple Banner
- Simple Focus
- Tag Wrangler
- Title-Only Tab
- Zen Mode

### Astro Modular Settings and Commander

The Astro Modular Settings plugin was specifically made for this theme. It has everything you need to easily tweak your blog's features. It edits the project's `config.ts` file, even though it's outside of the Obsidian vault's root directory. 

A wizard will open at startup which will lead you through some configuration options. You can disable this pop up if you like. 

Pretty much anything else you'd possible want to customize is in the settings of the plugin. You can also create your own theme, import and export configs, and a bunch more.

It also has several useful commands. To open terminal quickly, use the `Open terminal` command. It's been modified for Windows, macOS, and Linux to start terminal in the relevant directory so you can easily do standard package manager commands with `pnpm` or `npm`. It can be activated with `CTRL + SHIFT + D`. 

You can quickly configure your site settings with the `Open Astro Modular Settings` command. You can also press `CTRL + SHIFT + ,` to open it, or use the conveniently-placed icon next to the traditional Obsidian settings icon (which can be toggled off in the plugin's settings if you don't want it there). 

The Commander plugin helps us place a button for each of these actions on the file explorer UI. If you don't want them there, simply disable the plugin or customize the clickable icons to be somewhere else in Obsidian's interface. 

### Astro Composer and Alias Filename History

Handy for easily creating new notes as Astro blog posts, pages, projects, or docs. Just create a new note with `CTRL + N`, type in a title in Title case or with special characters, and the note or folder name generated is a kebab-case version of the title without special characters. This is ideal for automating content page slugs. 

You can also define and set default properties that can be generated automatically or manually set for any open note as well. The "Standardize properties" command can help set or reorganize any missing properties or tags, especially if you update your properties template down the road.

Unlike other themes, you can use wikilinks or standard markdown links, ***without*** having to convert those to internal links for Astro with the "Convert internal links for Astro" command. This theme supports any internal link that works with Obsidian.

You can also easily grab links to headings by right clicking one and selecting "Copy Heading Link". 

`CTRL + R` allows you to easily rename blog posts, and note filenames (or parent folders) get updated in kebab-case automatically. When this happens, the old filename will be stored as an alias by default via the Alias Filename History plugin. This means redirects of the old post or page URL will go to the current post's slug, which is configured in Astro. 

You can adjust lots of settings including regex for ignoring names (like `Untitled` or a `_` prefix), timeout in seconds to store the name, or looking for changes in the parent folder name as well if you use the folder-based post option.

### Homepage, Default New Tab Page, and Bases CRM

All three of these plugins work together so you're default screen is a `.base` file that's a directory of all of your blog posts, listed in reverse-chronological order. You're able to configure the CMS view and even add new views to your liking. 

I call this "Home Base."

```base
filters:
  and:
    - file.ext == "md"
formulas:
  Slug: |-
    if(file.folder == "posts", "/posts/" + file.name.replace(".md", ""), 
      if(file.folder == "pages", "/" + file.name.replace(".md", ""), 
        if(file.folder == "special", if(file.name.replace(".md", "") == "home", "/", "/" + file.name.replace(".md", "")), 
          if(file.folder == "projects", "/projects/" + file.name.replace(".md", ""), 
            if(file.folder == "docs", "/docs/" + file.name.replace(".md", ""), 
              "/" + file.folder)))))
  Content Folder: |-
    if(file.name == "index",
      if(file.folder != "",
        if(file.folder.replace("/" + file.folder.replace(/.*\//, ""), "") != "",
          file.folder.replace("/" + file.folder.replace(/.*\//, ""), ""),
          file.folder
        ),
        "root"
      ),
      if(file.folder != "",
        file.folder,
        "root"
      )
    )
properties:
  note.title:
    displayName: Title
  note.date:
    displayName: Date
  note.pubDate:
    displayName: Date
  formula.Slug:
    displayName: Path
views:
  - type: cards
    name: Posts
    filters:
      and:
        - file.folder.startsWith("posts")
    order:
      - title
      - formula.Slug
      - date
    sort:
      - property: date
        direction: DESC
    limit: 8
    cardSize: 230
    image: note.image
    imageAspectRatio: 0.55
    columnSize:
      note.title: 235
  - type: cards
    name: Standard Pages
    filters:
      and:
        - file.folder.startsWith("pages")
    order:
      - title
      - formula.Slug
    sort:
      - property: title
        direction: ASC
  - type: cards
    name: Special Pages
    filters:
      and:
        - file.folder.startsWith("special")
    order:
      - title
      - formula.Slug
    sort:
      - property: title
        direction: ASC
  - type: cards
    name: Projects
    filters:
      and:
        - file.folder.startsWith("projects")
    order:
      - title
      - formula.Slug
    sort:
      - property: date
        direction: DESC
    image: note.image
    cardSize: 200
    imageAspectRatio: 0.6
  - type: cards
    name: Documentation
    filters:
      and:
        - file.folder.startsWith("docs")
    order:
      - title
      - formula.Slug
    sort:
      - property: lastModified
        direction: DESC
    image: note.image
    imageAspectRatio: 0.8
  - type: cards
    name: All Content
    order:
      - title
      - formula.Slug
    sort:
      - property: file.folder
        direction: ASC
    cardSize: 230
    image: note.image
    imageAspectRatio: 0.55

```

Bases CRM lets us treat a grid of content like a content management system. You can select multiple items and do bulk edits, rename content right from that view, or toggle the draft status of an item.
### Oxygen Theme Settings, Simple Focus, and Zen Mode

This plugin helps you customize your experience if you use the provided Oxygen Obsidian theme and can help you focus on writing.

You'll notice a wide variety of color scheme options, most of which were included in the [Minimal](https://github.com/kepano/obsidian-minimal) theme upon which Oxygen was based.

Should you desire to hide any of the panels, you can use `CTRL + ALT Z` for the left side panel, `CTRL + ALT + X` for the right side panel, or `CTRL + ALT + S` for the tab bar. Pressing it again will reveal it again. 

With the Simple Focus plugin, you can can simplify your file explorer view to just the directory that's immediately relevant to your currently-open file. Just click the toggle focus button or right click a directory in the file explorer pane to pare down on the number of files and folder you're seeing.

Zen Mode offers another quick option to focus on your writing. Pressing `CTRL + SHIFT + Z` will enter Zen mode. When activated, all elements removed except for your content. Use the keystroke again to exit. 

If you like, you can install the [Style Settings](https://github.com/mgmeyers/obsidian-style-settings) plugin for even more control.

#### Using a Theme Other Than Oxygen

If you're just interested in hiding UI elements and wish to use a theme other than Oxygen, you can install the [Hider](https://github.com/kepano/obsidian-hider) plugin and use the aforementioned Style Settings plugin to hide the Properties heading and the "Add Property" button. For that use case specifically, you can also enable the `hide-properties-heading-and-add-properties-button.css` CSS snippet which you'll find under Settings > Appearance without using any plugins at all. 

### Paste Image Rename and Paste Image Into Property

Quickly drag and drop image files or paste directly from your clipboard and give them kebab-case, SEO-friendly names. Both work directly in note content or within properties.

### Image Inserter

Pull in images from Unsplash or other sources easily with just a few keystrokes. Just use `CTRL + '` to insert an image - and immediately set a SEO-friendly filename for it via the Paste Image Rename plugin. Insert into the designated property with `CTRL + SHIFT + '`

### Tag Wrangler

Makes managing tabs more useful. Can easily bulk-rename tags or search your content by tags.

### Title-Only Tab

Pulls from the `title` property instead of using the file name for any tab. 

### Property Over Filename

When linking or searching notes, you can use the `title` property as its primary identifier, which is more helpful visually and semantically for linking between and searching for content, since note file names are post/page slugs in kebab case instead of titles. 

When you link to another note, its `title` is automatically set as the hyperlinked text, but you can easily change it to something else after it's been inserted.

### SEO

Get a snappy audit of your content for search engine rankings and AI parsing. You can get a quick snapshot of your whole vault or drill down into specific posts. You can configure the settings to turn off checks you don't care about or tweak the logic in the calculations.

### Simple Banner

Adds a nice-looking banner on the top of each compatible content, as long as a valid `image` property is defined. Matches the cover image used in the Bases CMS view.

### BRAT

Used to load Astro Modular Settings, or the currently-pending plugins that haven't been added to the community plugin directory yet: Alias Filename History, Astro Composer, Disable Tabs, Oxygen Theme Settings, Property Over Filename, and SEO plugins as well as the Oxygen theme. Future versions of this vault will remove BRAT versions in favor of the official releases.

### Git

With the [Git](https://obsidian.md/plugins?id=obsidian-git) plugin, you can easily publish to your Astro blog without leaving Obsidian using `CTRL + SHIFT + S`. Simply enable the plugin and configure with git to turn it on.

### Disable Tabs

This is off by default, but if enabled, opening any new tab replaces the current one only. Especially nice for when you're hiding the tab bar and don't want multiple tabs. If you enable this plugin, you'd probably want to use some of those optional CSS snippets mentioned above to make window management easier.

When combined with the Homepage and New Default Tab plugins, `CTRL + T` and `CTRL + M` essentially do the same thing.

### Shell Commands

Off by default also, we used to use this to open the `config.ts` file and open the terminal in the project's root directory, but these functions have been replaced by Astro Modular Settings. You can re-enable it and use it though if it's useful to you.

## Mobile 

### Disabling the Git Plugin

It's recommended to disable the Git plugin on mobile and use something like [Git Sync](https://github.com/ViscousPot/GitSync) for iOS and Android (or [MGit](https://github.com/maks/MGit) just for Android) instead. The Git plugin is notoriously buggy on mobile so it's better to use something else. 

Here's how to disable it: 

1. On your mobile device, open Obsidian, and open your Astro Modular site's `src/content` folder as a vault. 
2. Open the left sidebar and open Settings. 
3. Scroll down to community plugins and tap on Git from the list.
4. Scroll all the way down and select "Disable on this device".
5. Restart Obsidian. 

This method is recommended rather than merely disabling the plugin, since if you sync with your desktop it will also get disabled there, too. This way it's disabled per-device.

### Limitations

The Astro Modular Settings plugin, the Paste Image Into Property plugin, and the Commander plugin UI buttons are all disabled on mobile. 

### Customization 

To tweak the mobile-specific experience, there are two main places to check: Toolbar and Appearance in settings.

#### Toolbar

Under the Toolbar settings, you can set the mobile quick action which is triggered by pulling down from the top of the screen by tapping the "Configure" option. 

Below that you can adjust what options are available to you on the mobile toolbar.

#### Appearance 

Under the Appearance settings, locate "Interface" and the "Ribbon menu configuration" option's "Manage" button. You can set your preferred quick access item from the list, and customize which items appear on the ribbon menu. 

If you keep scrolling down, you can find some optional mobile-specific CSS snippets, some of which were mentioned earlier.

### You're All Set

Assuming you have git working on your phone in another capacity, you now have seamless content sync between your desktop, laptop, tablet, and mobile devices.
